<link href="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/kevinburke/markdowncss/markdown.css"
rel="stylesheet"></link>

# East Bay Open 4

It's time to grab a putter and prepare to putt for glory. The 4th East
Bay Open minigolf tournament will take place on a time TBD [at the Castro
Valley Golfland](https://www.golfland.com/castrovalley/). [Contact
Kevin](mailto:kev@inburke.com) if you are interested in playing!

## What is it?

It's a 36 hole golf tournament. There will be a cut with 4 holes to go. The low
scorers will play the last 4 holes with everyone watching. The lowest scoring
golfer who signs and dates their (correct) scorecard wins. Generally we're done
in about 3 hours.

## What are we playing for?

Jake Bauch has generously purchased a trophy! It is rad as hell. If you post
the lowest score over 36 holes, and sign and date your (correct) scorecard, you
will engrave your name on the trophy and become a part of History.

The person who posts the highest score on an individual hole (Frank Bauch had
the highest last year with 13) and the person who posts the highest overall
score through 32 holes will cover the engraving cost for the winner (it's
cheap, I think it is like $10 or something.) Everyone will get to putt at the
19th hole for a chance at a free game, which can be redeemed the following
year.

## How does this differ from usual minigolf?

Glad you asked!

Normally people pick up their ball after 6 shots if they haven't made it. In
this tournament there is no max score for a hole; you putt until it goes in.

As Shooter McGavin famously said, you have to play the ball as it lies. If you
hit the ball off the course, you can either play it as it lies, or take a one
stroke penalty and place it at the point of exit. On the 36th hole, you can't
take a stroke penalty, you have to play it wherever it goes.

If you tee up the ball and you hit it up a hill and it rolls back down past
the tee, you can play it where it lies or replace on the tee for a one stroke
penalty.

If your ball gets stuck in a pipe or whatever and doesn't roll out, you can try
to hit it out with your putter or take a penalty but you don't get to just pull
it out or roll another ball down.

You can place your ball a putter-head length away from any walls, *as long as*
it's on the course. You don't get any relief from off-course obstacles, you can
take a penalty to move the ball.

You can't roll a ball down a pipe to see where it goes. You can't hit your ball
while it's still moving.

If another ball hits your ball, tough luck. If you don't want someone else to
hit your ball you should mark your ball. You can ask other players to mark. For
speed of play, if your ball is blocking someone else's shot you should go
first, even though you are closer to the hole.

There is a cut after 32 holes. The final group will play the last 4 holes with
everyone watching. *You cannot win if you are in the final group.* If you think
you have a chance at it even though you are 15 strokes back, you can play with
that group, though you should bow out once you admit you have no chance.

### How do I get there?

It's in Castro Valley. There is parking at the course, or it's about a 20
minute walk from Castro Valley BART. (I will probably take BART and walk)

### Can I use my own putter or ball?

No, you have to use the course provided putter and ball. On the flip side you
can choose the color of the ball and your putter height.

### How much does it cost?

If we buy the tickets online it's $8 for the first round and $3 for the next
round. In person it's $10 for the first round. I can buy a ticket for you, just
email me and Venmo $11.

### Can I bring a friend?

Yes! Please bring friends. Everyone is welcome.

### What can I do to pitch in?

Let me know that you are coming!

We have an opening if someone would like to perform the National Anthem beforehand.

Please let me know if you want to be an official orange slice or snack sponsor.

Also let me know if you have experience with logo design, that would be cool.

### This sounds intense, should I come?

You should absolutely come, it sounds a lot more intense in this email than it
is in person. Usually you figure out you have no chance at winning around hole
6 and then just have fun playing minigolf the rest of the time. You might hit a
hole in one. The worst thing that can happen is you don't do good on an anthill
and you take a 20 on a hole which isn't really that bad.

<img src="https://media.giphy.com/media/kGVuQRmroRI3u/giphy.gif" />

See you out there!

Kevin
