<link href="https://cdn.rawgit.com/kevinburke/markdowncss/master/markdown.css"
rel="stylesheet"></link>

# East Bay Open 2017

It's time to grab a putter and prepare to putt for glory. The 3rd East Bay Open
minigolf tournament will take place on January 14th at 11am [at the Castro
Valley Golfland](https://www.golfland.com/castrovalley/).

## What is it?

It's a 36 hole golf tournament. There will be a cut with 4 holes to go. The low
scorers will play the last 4 holes with everyone watching. The lowest scoring
golfer who signs and dates their (correct) scorecard wins. Generally we're done
in about 2-2.5 hours.

## Date and time caveat

As you may have heard the Oakland Raiders are in the NFL playoffs for the first
time since we were in middle school, and it's very important to some of us that
we are there to watch our team commit 47 penalties and underperform against an
AFC South opponent. We tried to pick a time that wouldn't conflict with their
game, but the NFL hasn't announced the schedule yet, so we can't be 100% sure.
If the time conflicts with the game, we'll either move minigolf up an hour (to
10AM) or switch to Sunday. I'll let everyone know as soon as possible.

## What are we playing for?

The most exciting news this year is that defending champion Jake Bauch has
purchased a trophy! It is rad as hell. If you post the lowest score over 36
holes, you will engrave your name on the trophy and become a part of History.

The person who posts the highest score on an individual hole (I think Doug had
the highest last year with a 19) and the person who posts the highest overall
score will cover the engraving cost for the winner (it's cheap, I think it is
like $10 or something.) Everyone will get to putt at the 19th hole for a chance
at a free game.

## How does this differ from usual minigolf?

Glad you asked!

Normally people pick up their ball after 6 shots if they haven't made it. In
this tournament there is no max score for a hole; you putt until it goes in.
This leads to hilarious results.

As Shooter McGavin famously said, you have to play the ball as it lies. If you
hit the ball off the course, you can either play it as it lies, or take a one
stroke penalty and place it at the point of exit. On the 18th hole you can't
take a stroke penalty, you have to play it wherever it goes.

If you tee up the ball and you hit it up a hill and it rolls back down past
the tee, you can play it where it lies or replace on the tee for a one stroke
penalty.

If your ball gets stuck in a pipe or whatever and doesn't roll out you can try
to hit it out with your putter or take a penalty but you don't get to just pull
it out or roll another ball down.

You can place your ball a putter-head length away from any walls.

### How do I get there?

It's in Castro Valley. There is parking at the course, or it's about a 20
minute walk from Castro Valley BART. (I will probably take BART and walk)

### Can I use my own putter or ball?

No, you have to use the course provided putter and ball. On the flip side you
can choose the color of the ball and your putter height.

### How much does it cost?

If we buy the tickets online it's $7 for the first round and $3 for the next
round. In person it's $10 for the first round. I can buy a ticket for you, just
email me and Venmo $10.

### Can I bring a friend?

Yes! Please bring friends. Everyone is welcome.

### What can I do to pitch in?

Let me know that you are coming!

We have an opening if someone would like to perform the National Anthem beforehand.

Please let me know if you want to be an official orange slice or snack sponsor.

Also let me know if you have experience with logo design, that would be cool.

### This sounds intense, should I come?

You should absolutely come, it sounds a lot more intense in this email than it
is in person. Usually you figure out you have no chance at winning around hole
6 and then just have fun playing minigolf the rest of the time. You might hit a
hole in one. The worst thing that can happen is you don't do good on an anthill
and you take a 20 on a hole which isn't really that bad.

<img src="https://media.giphy.com/media/kGVuQRmroRI3u/giphy.gif" />

See you out there!

Kevin
